{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1348\cocoasubrtf170
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 Hospitals and Patients\

\b0 \
I examined the relationship between scores and variability on effective care and readmissions/deaths measures  and patient survey response by computing the Pearson\'92s Correlation Coefficient between the average and standard deviation of these measures and the patient overall survey rating. \
\
I found that scores on effective care are very modestly positively correlated with patient survey ratings, with a correlation of \CocoaLigature0 0.0603.  The lack of strong - or even moderately strong - relationships between effective care ratings and patient ratings suggest that the patient ratings speak to a different aspect of hospital quality than the objective care ratings do (perhaps \'93bedside manner\'94 and interpersonal interactions), which bolsters my choice to involve survey responses in the determination of best hospital. Variance in effectiveness of care scores is essentially unrelated to patients survey responses, with a correlation of 
\f1\fs22 -0.0073. 
\f0\fs24 \
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 Unsurprising, readmissions and deaths were very strongly negatively correlated with patient survey scores, with a correlation of -0.6437, so hospitals that are failing to make people better or killing them are not well liked. Interesting there is a positive correlation with variability on readmissions and deaths measures of 0.2644, which suggests that hospitals which vary in how well the do on different measures are more popular. It is not immediately clear why this is but one could hypothesize that hospitals with more advanced trauma centers or should be, but could relate to different types of hospitals having more or less variance. \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
Our overall conclusion here is that measure of effective care do not seem to much impact patient satisfaction but that rates of readmission and death do so strongly. }